the beacon course was renamed for
Stanley dancer in 2002 now for the first
time in 2006 it'll be the Stanley Dance
at Memorial
Stanley dancer didn't just set a fine
example for the racing world he said a
gold standard for everyday existence he
was a man of decency and fairness
humility principled generosity and hard
work he never hesitated to take the time
to help anyone and he didn't have to be
wearing any VIP button
Stanley's life was one of perseverance
and of singular focus one of excelling
one of making it to his chosen sports
highest level
Stanley's reign at the top of the
harness racing world was longer than any
other but there's a saying in sport that
goes it's tougher to stay on top and it
is to get there we'll never know if this
was the case with Stanley he was the
same man before he made it and while he
reigned supreme Stanley was a man whose
handshake was his contract a commitment
from Stanley was an honored commitment
8:30 meant 8:30
he didn't follow anyone elses lead he
set his own standard would it be with
his aggressive innovative style of
front-end driving or his meticulous
attention to detail he exhibited while
training his horses and running his
spotless table
Stanly one of setting standard by which
others tried to follow there's a saying
that older men have dreams younger men
have visions
Stanley's visions became reality and he
encouraged all the youngsters who wanted
to make it the industry to follow them
through but it is true that Stanley did
things the rest of us can only imagine
doing you know anybody else was on the
cover of Sports Illustrated who was
invited to the White House and had
dinner there
we appeared on The Ed Sullivan Show The
Price is Right
what's my line night of a hundred stars
and share the stage of Muhammad Ali and
rubbed elbows with the likes of Mickey
Mantle whitey Ford
Joe Frazier Jerry Bailey and barley'
Palmer only Stalin
sometimes as we advance on in years
there's a tendency to forget where you
came from
not Stanley born and raised in New
Jersey Stanley won his very first race
at free old his last at Garden State
Park
his biggest at the Meadowlands of dueña
and he hosted the fairs at his farm in
New Egypt for 16 years
truly one of New Jersey's finest sons
Stanley dance was harnessed Racing's
great Sequoia tree calm stoic always
there an undeniable presence bigger than
life
but more importantly one that lives on
when that will always be there and
always has been no calendar can tell us
differently for a man of slight physical
stature Stanley cast the biggest shadow
in the sports history when he talked
everyone listened when he moved
they followed Stanley's influence his
direction his guidance his knowledge his
decency all live on we all honor and
respect the most unique man who no doubt
had a profound influence on our lives
you know it was twenty years ago the
sport lost Billy huh ten years ago since
Del Miller
now is daily
together they form an unmatched trio in
heaven but a void of immeasurable
proportions for the rest of us it's
almost as if the gods of racing knew we
needed a decade in between just to
recover from each someone a non racing
person asked me how old was Stanley when
he passed away I told her 78 she said
then isn't this a celebration of his
life to which I responded that's exactly
what we've been doing for the last 50
years a friend of mine asked me how long
it took to get ready and write this
eulogy I told him I didn't write it
Stanley did never once does Stanley not
thanked me in all the years I talked to
him live and on the phone but maybe just
maybe it was us who should've been
thanking him all along I think I speak
for everyone when I say we will never
ever forget you Stanley dancer
you